+----------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| This is a repost of an article originally written at:                      |
| https://danq.me/2025/03/19/webdx-does-more-mean-better/                    |
|                                                                            |
| It's republished here to help reinforce its point! It's perfectly readable |
| here, right? And yes there's no JS, no CSS... not even any HTML. Sometimes |
| plain text is all you need.                                                |
+----------------------------------------------------------------------------+

Enumerating Web features
------------------------

The W3C's WebDX Community Group this week announced that they've reached a
milestone with their web-features project.

=> https://www.w3.org/blog/2025/first-catalog-of-web-features-completed-by-the-webdx-community-group/

The project is an effort to catalogue browser support for Web features, to
establish an understanding of the baseline feature set that developers can
rely on.

That's great, and I'm in favour of the initiative. But I wonder about graphs
like the one on that page that shows the number of Web features continually
growing and those features being implemented in more and more browsers.

The shape of that graph sort-of implies that... more features is better. And I'm
not entirely convinced that's true.

Does "more" imply "better"?
---------------------------

Don't get me wrong, there are lots of Web features that are excellent. The
kinds of things where it's hard to remember how I did without them. CSS grids
are for many purposes an improvement on flexboxes; flexboxes were massively
better than floats; and floats were an enormous leap forwards compared to
using tables for layout! The "new" HTML5 input types are wonderful, as are the
revolutionary native elements for video, audio, etc. I'll even sing the
praises of some of the new JavaScript APIs (geolocation, web share, and push
are particular highlights).

But it's not some kind of universal truth that "more features means better
developer experience". It's already the case, for example, that getting
started as a Web developer is harder than it once was, and I'd argue harder
than it ought to be. There exist complexities nowadays that are barriers to
entry. Like the places where the promise of a progressively-enhanced Web has
failed (they're rare, but they exist). Or the sheer plethora of features that
come with caveats to their use that simply must be learned (yes, you need a
<meta name="viewport">; no, you can't rely on JS to produce content).

Meanwhile, there are technologies that were standardised, and that we did
need, but that never took off. The <keygen> element never got implemented into
the then-dominant Internet Explorer (there were other implementation problems
too, but this one's the killer). This made it functionally useless, which
meant that its standard never evolved and grew. As a result, its
implementation in other browsers stagnated and it was eventually deprecated.
Had it been implemented properly and iterated on, we'd could've had something
like WebAuthn over a decade earlier.

Which I guess goes to show that "more features is better" is only true if
they're the right features. Perhaps there's some way of tracking the changing
landscape of developer experience on the Web that doesn't simply count
enumerate a baseline of widely-available features? I don't know what it is,
though!

A simple web
------------

Mostly, the Web worked fine when it was simpler. And while some of the
enhancements we've seen over the decades are indisputably an advancement,
there are also plenty of places where we've let new technologies lead us
astray. Third-party cookies appeared as a naive consequence of first-party
ones, but came to be used to undermine everybody's privacy. Dynamic DOM
manipulation started out as a clever idea to help with things like form
validation and now a significant number of websites can't even show their
images - or sometimes their text - unless their JavaScript code gets
downloaded and interpreted successfully.

A blog post, news article, or even an eCommerce site or social networking
platform doesn't need the vast majority of the Web's "new" features. Those
features are important for some Web applications, but most of the time, we
don't need them. But somehow they end up being used anyway.

Whether or not the use of unnecessary new Web features is a net positive to
developer experience is debatable. But it's certainly not to the benefit of
user experience. Which I care more about!

(You are, of course, reading this post via Gemini, which is probably the best
possible evidence that we don't need a heavyweight, feature-rich Web to share
most of the content that gets shared on the Web...)
