The Scroll Art Museum
---------------------

The Scroll Art Museum <https://scrollart.org/> demonstrates how "ASCII art" can
be so much more than a static medium by showcasing artwork exploiting scrolling
of text as a way of implementing basic animation. That doesn't sound as good as
it looks when you see it for yourself: its worth a peep.

A wrote a little more about the museum, and my favourite piece within it, on my
primary blog <https://danq.me/the-scroll-art-museum>. But from a textplain.blog
perspective it got me thinking: is there any way to achieve this kind of effect
here on this blog, too? The museum uses JavaScript (which in turn means HTML is
requried, at least for within a web browser) to implement the "scroller" effect
but I find myself wondering if there might be some other way.

Back before CSS came along, Web pages were more linearly-deterministic. I mean:
you could decide how to lay out a part of a page well before the source code of
the entire page was loaded. This was useful on the (slower) dial-up connections
of the time, because it meant that browsers could (and did) render the HTML as-
it-was-delivered, rather than waiting for the entire page to arrive, building a
DOM... and then waiting (for a short time) for other assets to load to mitigate
the "flash of unstyled content" issue (Was it actually ever SO intolerable that
it justifies holding the user on a blank page while a typeface downloaded? I've
always doubted that.)

(This sneaky trick, plus long-lived connections, was sometimes used as a way to
implement early Web-based chat rooms: a frame would load a page that would send
data in dribs and drabs but NEVER FINISH loading, while a second frame was used
to send messages TO the channel via a simple form. It was hacky as hell and yet
somehow entirely representative of the imagination of the 1990s Internet.)

Anyway: plain text CAN be rendered linearly. There's no reason a browser should
avoid rendering the first few lines of this blog post while the rest downloads:
it won't make an impact on how the first lines are rendered, right? Of course a
text file usually won't be large enough for that to be an issue. But what if we
artificially slowed-down the connection speed from the server side? Delivered a
long text file very slowly, a line or so at a time?

My bet is that modern web browsers (unnecessarily) treat such text files in the
same way as they do Web pages: waiting for the entire thing to download without
rendering anything until they're done. But I do wonder! I'm mostly stuck in bed
unwell today <https://danq.me/sick-day> and I'm definitely not "with it" enough
to do my day job (also: I keep falling asleep which is somewhat frowned-on even
in the dullest of meetings)... but I might be able to find my way through brain
fog enough to do a quick experiment.

And if the results are interesting, I'll report back. (If I don't follow-up, it
is safe to assume the results were as boring as I predict!)

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Update: it didn't work... but something else did! Exploiting the Refresh header
in HTTP to force the page to refresh with a slightly different URL, to "offset"
the scroll position through a pre-generated piece of scroll art!

Wanna see? Go to https://textplain.blog/scroll-art-viewer/pipe-swap

It's moderately clunky, obviously. But it works! No JavaScript required.
